persistent_path_homology/README.md, before:

# Program to calculate the Persistent Path Homology of a network

Based on the paper [Persistent Path Homology of Directed Networks](https://arxiv.org/abs/1701.00565), from
the authors Samir Chowdhury and Facundo Mémoli, I will implement
in python their algorithm responsible to calculate the Persistent Path Homology from a network N=(X,A).

This technique os relevant if one is interested in a directed
graph which the weights of each edge of the graph are not
symmetrical.

## IMPORTANT
Here the field acting over the vector space is Z/2Z.

## HOW TO USE THIS SCRIPT

Given a network *N = (X, A)*, where *X* represents a
set of points (a subset of R^n) satisfying
- *X* is a *numpy array** with shape:
- X.shape[0] ---> size of our data
- X.shape[1] ---> dimension of the R^n space

and *A* a matrix of the weights such that
- *A* is a *numpy array** with shape:
- A.shape == (X.shape[0], X.shape[0]),

and A must satisfy the conditions:
- A[x,y] >= 0 for all x,y in {0, 1, 2, 3, ..., X.shape[0] - 1};
- A[x,y] == 0 iff x = y, for all x,y in {0, 1, 2, 3, ..., X.shape[0] - 1}.


Then, if someone wants to calculate the persistent path homology of
dimensions *0, 1, 2, ..., p* (with p >= 0), the following has 
to be done in a python interpreter (or in a script, it is up to you)

``` python
from persistent_path_homology import *
pph_X = PPH(X, A)
pph_X.ComputePPH()
print(pph.Pers)
```


Above, **pph_X** is an object of the class **PPH** and the method
**ComputePPPH()** calculates the persistent path homology,
which will be stored as one  atribute of **pph_X**,
namely **pph_X.Pers**. This atribute **pph_X.Pers** will be a
list containing all persistent path intervals. Each element of
this list will look like:
* pph_X.Pers[0] is a list containing persistent path features of dimension 0;
* pph_X.Pers[1] is a list containing persistent path features of dimension 1;
* pph_X.Pers[2] is a list containing persistent path features of dimension 2;
* ...

In case you wish to see the algorithm running step by step, you
must call the method **ComputePPH_printing_step_by_step()**. For
instance:

``` python
from persistent_path_homology import *
pph_X = PPH(X, A)
pph_X.ComputePPH_printing_step_by_step()
```


## TECHNICAL INFORMATION.
------------------------

1) The algorithm proposed by the authors down bellow do not
work properly if we do not set the regular paths of
dimension 0 to be marked. That is, it is mandatory to
mark this regular paths otherwise the persistent features
of dimension 0 won't be detected by the algorithm and also
it will lead to incorrect persistent diagrams.
This can be noticed by checking the algorithm proposed
by Afra Zomorodian and Gunnar Carlsson, namely
Computing Persistent Homology, to calculate persistent
homology. This paper can be found in the link:
> [Computing Persistent Homology](https://geometry.stanford.edu/papers/zc-cph-05/) by the authors Afra Zomorodian and Gunnar Carlsson.

2) The algorithm implemented here can be found
at:
> [Persistent Path Homology of Directed Networks](https://epubs.siam.org/doi/10.1137/1.9781611975031.75)
by the authors: Samir Chowdhury and Facundo Mémoli.

3) The software used to write this python script
was the magnificent **Doom-Emacs**, which is an
Emacs embedded with all functionalities of
VIM. I really recommend using emacs with
this framework. Down bellow I leave its github
repository:
> [Doom-Emacs](https://github.com/hlissner/doom-emacs) An Emacs framework for the stubborn martian hacker (as the author says =D)

4) This script has been tested using python3 on
a Ubuntu machine and it will make use of the library **numpy**:
> [Numpy](https://numpy.org/) Numerical computing tools for python

Commit message:

There is something not working here. Need to fix it

persistent_path_homology/README.md, after:

# Program to calculate the Persistent Path Homology of a network

Based on the paper [Persistent Path Homology of Directed Networks](https://arxiv.org/abs/1701.00565), from
the authors Samir Chowdhury and Facundo Mémoli, I will implement
in python their algorithm responsible to calculate the Persistent Path Homology from a network N=(X,A).

This technique os relevant if one is interested in a directed
graph which the weights of each edge of the graph are not
symmetrical.

## IMPORTANT
Here the field acting over the vector space is Z/2Z.

## HOW TO USE THIS SCRIPT

Given a network *N = (X, A)*, where *X* represents a
set of points (a subset of R^n) satisfying
- *X* is a *numpy array** with shape:
- X.shape[0] ---> size of our data
- X.shape[1] ---> dimension of the R^n space

and *A* a matrix of the weights such that
- *A* is a *numpy array** with shape:
- A.shape == (X.shape[0], X.shape[0]),

and A must satisfy the conditions:
- A[x,y] >= 0 for all x,y in {0, 1, 2, 3, ..., X.shape[0] - 1};
- A[x,y] == 0 iff x = y, for all x,y in {0, 1, 2, 3, ..., X.shape[0] - 1}.


Then, if someone wants to calculate the persistent path homology of
dimensions *0, 1, 2, ..., p* (with p >= 0), the following has 
to be done in a python interpreter (or in a script, it is up to you)

``` python
from persistent_path_homology import *
pph_X = PPH(X, A)
pph_X.ComputePPH()
print(pph.Pers)
```


Above, **pph_X** is an object of the class **PPH** and the method
**ComputePPPH()** calculates the persistent path homology,
which will be stored as one  atribute of **pph_X**,
namely **pph_X.Pers**. This atribute **pph_X.Pers** will be a
list containing all persistent path intervals. Each element of
this list will look like:
* pph_X.Pers[0] is a list containing persistent path features of dimension 0;
* pph_X.Pers[1] is a list containing persistent path features of dimension 1;
* pph_X.Pers[2] is a list containing persistent path features of dimension 2;
* ...

In case you wish to see the algorithm running step by step, you
must call the method **ComputePPH_printing_step_by_step()**. For
instance:

``` python
from persistent_path_homology import *
pph_X = PPH(X, A)
pph_X.ComputePPH_printing_step_by_step()
```


## TECHNICAL INFORMATION.
------------------------

1) **(Checking this! There is something not working here)** The algorithm proposed by the authors down bellow do not
work properly if we do not set the regular paths of
dimension 0 to be marked. That is, it is mandatory to
mark this regular paths otherwise the persistent features
of dimension 0 won't be detected by the algorithm and also
it will lead to incorrect persistent diagrams.
This can be noticed by checking the algorithm proposed
by Afra Zomorodian and Gunnar Carlsson, namely
Computing Persistent Homology, to calculate persistent
homology. This paper can be found in the link:
> [Computing Persistent Homology](https://geometry.stanford.edu/papers/zc-cph-05/) by the authors Afra Zomorodian and Gunnar Carlsson.

2) The algorithm implemented here can be found
at:
> [Persistent Path Homology of Directed Networks](https://epubs.siam.org/doi/10.1137/1.9781611975031.75)
by the authors: Samir Chowdhury and Facundo Mémoli.

3) The software used to write this python script
was the magnificent **Doom-Emacs**, which is an
Emacs embedded with all functionalities of
VIM. I really recommend using emacs with
this framework. Down bellow I leave its github
repository:
> [Doom-Emacs](https://github.com/hlissner/doom-emacs) An Emacs framework for the stubborn martian hacker (as the author says =D)

4) This script has been tested using python3 on
a Ubuntu machine and it will make use of the library **numpy**:
> [Numpy](https://numpy.org/) Numerical computing tools for python
